# redo
A shell script version of djb's redo build system

## Usage

redo is rather simple to use. Just write a shell script and everything written
to stdout is sent to the target.

    # hello.txt.do
    echo "Hello World"

Executing `redo hello.txt` looks for the script `hello.txt.do`. If it has never been
run, has been modified or the output doesn't exist, the script will run and
`hello.txt` will be created.

    $ echo "echo \"Hello World\"" > hello.txt.do
    $ redo hello.txt
    redo hello.txt
    $ cat hello.txt
    Hello World

If your script requires a output file rather than stdout the following variables
can be used:

  - `$1` - Not used, set to `0`
  - `$2` - Target name (hello.txt for hello.txt.do)
  - `$3` - Temporary file that will be moved to Target once completed

Rather than requiring every target to have its own do script, you can can
create a generic script based on the file extension.

    # default.txt.do
    pandoc -t plain $2.markdown

If no do file exists with the specif name, the generic default name will be tested.

    $ echo "This is **bold**" > test.markdown
    $ redo test.txt
    redo test.txt
    $ cat test.txt
    This is BOLD

### Dependencies

Adding build dependencies requires a single line `redo-ifchange <list of deps>`.

    # quux.do
    DEPS="foo.o bar.o"
    redo-ifchange $DEPS
    gcc -o $3 $DEPS

If you attempt to `redo quux` the system will check for changes in `foo.o` and
`bar.o`. If these files are targets and generated by redo, then their
dependencies will be checked. redo will traverse the dependency tree and only
rebuild what is required.

Dependencies are rebuilt based on file changes, using hashes, rather than timestamps.

### Required Creates

If you need a file to not exist prior to building, use the
`redo-ifcreate <list of deps>` command. If any file in the list exists when
rebuilding the current target, the build will fail. If it doesn't exist it will
be built using a direct or generic do script. If that doesn't work, and error
is thrown.

    # common.h.do
    redo-ifcreate version.txt
    echo "#define VERSION $(cat version.txt)"

If `redo common.h` is run and `version.txt` exits then it will fail. Otherwise
you should see:

    $ redo common.h
    redo version.txt
    redoo common.h

### Return Codes

If a line in a do script does not return 0, its return code is passed up to the
initial execution of `redo <list of targets>`. 

## Troubleshooting

If you ever run into issues and just want to rebuild the entire system, remove
the `.redo` directory and run `redo` again.

## Example

Try out the example code, `redo example`

## Installation

Easiest way is to just modify install.do and run it with `sh`

    $ /bin/sh ./install.do
    Password:
    $ ls /usr/local/bin/redo*
    /usr/local/bin/redo  /usr/local/bin/redo-ifchange  /usr/local/bin/redo-ifcreate

## License

As with djb's description, this script is released as Public Domain.

## More Info

For more information about redo see [djb's site](http://cr.yp.to/redo.html).

A [youtube video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zZ_nI9E9g0I) by jekor goes
through creating a version of redo written in Haskell.

This [thesis paper](http://grosskurth.ca/papers/mmath-thesis.pdf) by
A. Grosskurth goes through many build systems and then details redo.
